could a personal coach help me get back
on track at school
i'm not sure what scope of ish issues
personal coaches cover but would they be
able to help me get back on track at
school i desperately want to drop out of
my university program however this isn't
really an option
available to me at the moment
i keep missing deadlines for assignments
struggle to keep up with studying and
generally lack any motivation to make an
effort towards school
since i can't drop out i figure the next
best thing would be to try to get myself
organized and out of this funk
i have adhd and frequently feel
like i need someone to come and babysit
me to make sure i don't lie in bed all
day
okay i need someone
to care about the happenings in my life
for me because it feels like i sure as
fork don't i also
feel unbelievably childish in regards to
this matter i feel like i should be able
to just suck it up and get it done it is
also possible that i am burnt out
at this point in time i don't feel like
living a living person that is to say
that i don't feel like i play an active
role in my life just along for the ride
my expectation or assumption would be
that a coach would give me the tools
that help to help me stay organized and
improve my work school life balance
regardless of motivation help me help
myself in becoming a functioning human
being instead of a sad sack who lays in
bed all day feeling sorry for themselves
as much as i would love to hire a coach
to pester me every week make sure i'm
handing in my assignments on time and
make sure that i'm focused on my
schoolwork every minute of the day
instead of faffing about it i assume
getting a coach to teach me how to
achieve these goals independent of their
pestering would be much more beneficial
for me does this sound like something
a coach could help me work through so
the answer is absolutely yes this is
something that a coach can help you work
through
but this statement is absolutely wrong
my expectation assumption would be that
a coach would give me tools to help me
stay organized let's say i'm this
person's coach so this is like really
important understand about coaching so a
lot of people will come in to coaching
and say i have this goal
here is my problem here's what i need
from you okay my problem is that i am
unmotivated
and i feel like i'm just existing in
life okay so like if you guys have this
problem we're like you're in a funk
and you think that like you just need to
get out of the funk and you have no
motivation and you think that you need
some kind of like organizational help to
fix the problem to overcome your
motivation and act regardless of
motivation
that's like that's a very dangerous way
of thinking right so like let's think
about what kind of tools could a coach
give you they could give you like a
calendar ooh cool like let's let's open
up a calendar like let's like let's make
a timetable like let's figure out what
are you going to do 8 am every day
you're going to wake up you're like meal
prep on sundays like you're going to do
this you're going to do this you're
going to do this we're going to organize
your life you're going to check in with
me once a week and when i check in with
you i'm going to like hold you
accountable because if you didn't do any
of those things like we'll talk about
how you didn't do any of those things
bro cause a week has gone by and you
didn't wake up at all you didn't study
at all
that's what people want from coaching
right they want to go to a coach and
they say like oh if i go go to a coach
like i'm basically outsourcing the
effort they're going to give me some
kind of like organizational tip or some
kind of tool some kind of magic tool
that with this tool you don't even have
to overcome your motivational problems
right
it's almost like a late night like you
know advertisement for like some special
thing with this special magic bullet you
don't even need motivation you're gonna
be successful without motivation all you
need is this five-star planner right you
need this we have a very revolutionary
patented planning organizational system
that has been proven clinically to work
four out of five dentists agree this is
the right way to plan your life right it
worked for the dentist so it'll work for
you
so people come in and they say like oh
coaching will help me this right i need
someone to keep me accountable
but here's the problem
you're like you're not living life
you're existing right you're just
existing you have no motivation you're
in a funk
you also like here's the cycle like have
adhd i don't know if that's treated or
not but
motivational problems by the way are
like a big symptom of adhd okay so
you've got adhd you go to college you
start to fall into a funk as you fall
into a funk
you start to like feel bad about
yourself you start to lose motivation
as you lose motivation something
interesting happens in your brain like
when you're not motivated to do
something
it kind of like calculates like the
success likelihood of being as being low
and it like further dampens your
motivation you fall into this cycle like
i'm not motivated i fell behind
therefore i'm an idiot the more that
your brain thinks that you're an idiot
the more its calculation about
motivation is going to go downhill
because your brain is smart right so it
like thinks about things this way it
says okay like what's the likelihood
that i will succeed if the likelihood
that i will succeed is low i'm not going
to bother right because your brain is
pretty smart it's not it's it's evolved
to be efficient with its resources
that's like it's how we work right we
learn how to be efficient with our
resources and if you think
that you are not capable of succeeding
then
the amount of effort you would need to
succeed is going to feel too high and
you won't even bother to like
crap out your motivation you'll feel
burnt out
so can a coach help you with this
absolutely but the first thing that you
need to understand is that people will
come to coaching and they'll be like
give me a solution
and give me a tip give me a trick give
me a life hack because this is what our
brain has been conditioned to do right
because you have like all these youtube
ads and blogs and things like that that
are sort of like oh like just do this
one thing and like you will make a
hundred thousand dollars a day like i
did it look at my car look at like this
place that i'm filming in that i rented
using like i mortgaged my house to rent
out this penthouse apartment so it has a
really cool view and like i'm gonna look
slick and it's gonna be great and i'm
gonna brag about how much money i made
and all you need to do is give me your
money and then you will have the secrets
you'll be able to do it too you can do
it too i know i have faith in you and
all you have to do is give me the money
like it's you don't have to change
anything about yourself heaven forbid
you have to change yourself
i'm like all you need is this thing like
you just need this thing and
everything's gonna be great
so people come into coaching wanting a
magic bullet
but like what the coaches can they help
you absolutely
but what they're going to help you with
it has nothing to do with like giving
you an organizational plan you'll get
there by the way but not at the
beginning
because here's the thing like what do
y'all think this person is going to do
if someone gives them an organizational
plan like
so i i can't figure out in the
how to uh you know i think the next best
thing would be to get myself organized
and out of this funk like this is the
problem you got to get out of the funk
right
i feel like i should be able to just
suck it up and get it done
so this is like a sign that you're not
being compassionate towards yourself
right you're blaming yourself for your
struggles as long as like so now i want
you to think about what you're doing
here okay so like you're trying to do
something and what is the voice in your
head telling you it's telling you that
you're an idiot like you should be able
to suck it up what's wrong with you
dumbass
right oh like you're such a child you're
supposed to be an adult you're in
college but you're acting like a
teenager or a seven-year-old you should
be able to do it
so as long as your mind is like mentally
beating you up like it's gonna tank your
motivation do you guys see that
and then what happens is you kind of
become a zombie you're just like you're
not able to play an active role because
your your mind is telling you don't
bother don't bother
and then you need to help stay organized
regardless of motivation no man like
what you need is motivation to get
organized
i can organize i can show up at your
house
and i can like organize all of your
stuff and i can give you five different
colored folders for all of your classes
i can set up your google calendar for
you and that'll help a little bit
but the key thing is that you have to
unlock your motivation
right so help me help myself becoming a
functioning human being instead of a sad
sack who lays in bed all day feeling
sorry for themselves how do you think
that you are ever going to be successful
if this is your problem if you're a sad
sack who lays in bed all day feeling
sorry for yourself that's the first
thing that needs to change so if you
look at people who are motivated versus
people who are not motivated like what's
the big difference it's not organization
it's not whatever the dude on the
internet is selling you the big
difference is like like i i don't know
like this sounds really simple to me but
you know i'm gonna say it so you think
about like 10 people like look at 10
people who are highly highly motivated
and are crushing it at life and you go
ask them how do you feel about
themselves
i can almost guarantee you that not a
single one is going to be like i feel
like i'm a waste of space and i'm
existing and i'm a sad sack
right that's not what they're gonna say
that's what needs to change and coaching
can help you with that right so here's
what a coach is gonna do they're gonna
model positive self-talk
right so like the tricky thing is once
you learn how to talk to yourself that
way
it's like gg
and then people are wondering like how
do i learn self-talk so like you've
conditioned your brain has been
conditioned to say negative things about
you and so that's going to be kind of
weird because like the coach is going to
be empathic therapists do this too okay
we do it i think at least we train to do
it far very intentionally but so like
you know as they start to like express
empathy towards you like
your brain is gonna be like oh that's
kind of interesting and then over time
when i coach people
what tends to happen is like they'll say
like i knew you were gonna say that i
knew you were gonna say that right so
they learn like you as the client will
learn what your coach is doing you'll
like learn how to predict it you learn
how to say what they're gonna say and
then you're gonna start changing the way
that you talk to yourself because here's
the thing if you just think about this
for a second where does self-respect
come from people will sometimes ask the
question how do i learn self-respect so
let's just think about this where does a
lack of self-respect come from are we
born with a lack of self-respect like no
of course not
right so we learn to respect ourselves
through the way that we're treated and
we also learn to disrespect ourselves
through the way that we're treated if
we're emotionally abused that person is
going to beat themselves up too if we're
emotionally like loved then we're going
to like learn how to love ourself so how
do you learn self-respect i know this is
kind of bizarre you learn it from other
people literally
right so how do you learn self-respect
you get respected by other people and
you're like oh wow like that's pretty
cool like i deserve respect that's neat
and once you learn that from other
people then you can kind of like you
know change your own thinking
there's even research that supports this
there's some evidence that for example
fifty percent of people with borderline
personality disorder
will be in remission or no longer meet
criteria for a diagnosis if they are in
a stable relationship for two years
just think about that for a second with
no treatment okay research is not huge
sample sizes
but there does appear to be evidence
that like a lot of people with
borderline personality disorder can
actually like get better in life if they
engage in stable relationships
for an extended period of time it's not
one year it's not 18 months so for two
years they need a source of someone
who's stable and remember that the
number is also 50 so like that only
works for half of people
but i think it illustrates or reinforces
this point that even you can have like a
personality disorder and being treated
in a particular way consistently over
time can change the way that your brain
works so how do you learn self-respect
from other people and if you're
struggling with motivation it's not
about getting organized because your
mind is like oh like
i don't want to change anything in here
like i just need to find some external
solution out there and if i can find
that external solution then like it's
easy like i've done i don't have to like
stop being motivated
i i yeah i can just do this thing and
it'll fix everything
no it's going to require hard work and
most of that work is going to be
internal
right self growth and putting your life
together is not like an external thing
it's an internal thing at least in my
opinion it starts internally
so by all means you know work with a
coach if that appeals to you the other
thing is like
um
you know i think group coaching is
really good for this because
in group coaching
when you're co when you have low
self-esteem and your coach is nice to
you
there's going to be a thought in the
back of your mind that's going to say to
yours that's going to say to you like
it's their job to be nice to you you
guys get that
so it's completely different when you're
in group coaching because when you earn
the respect and they will treat you with
compassion and empathy right so we'll
train them out to do that
they'll like learn how to be active
listeners and like empathic as well as
authentic so we don't want them to be
polite we want to we want to train all
everyone in group to be authentic and
compassionate not polite
so they're going to be like honest with
you but they're going to temper that
honesty with compassion because honesty
without compassion just turns you into
an i don't know if you guys like
know anyone he's like oh yeah like i'ma
speak my truth and like they can't
handle it like because their feelings
like screw their feelings like i'm gonna
be the truth is the greatest ideal
so in in the indian system in the yogic
system of like moral virtues
non-violence is above truthfulness so
all truthfulness
should be subject to non-violence so you
should not be it's better to be
non-violent and lie
as opposed to be truthful and hurt
someone
okay
so
kind of going back to group but like the
reason that group is cool is like when
you earn the respect of those people
like that voice isn't there that oh it's
the coach's job to like treat me with
respect
they're getting paid to treat me with
respect they're getting paid to like me
that sinister thought is there in the
back of
you know your mind
and not all coaches like their clients
right they're good they may even be
authentic with you you may just be like
dude i don't like you but i'm gonna try
to make this work anyway
it's good i think it's healthy to be
honest with with clients even if you
dislike them so we want our coaches to
be like authentic and compassionate too
and so coaching i think can absolutely
help you but if you all are kind of
stuck in this situation
i think the key thing to remember
is that it's about fixing that internal
motivation or fixing that internal sense
of shame or that you're a failure or
that like and stop chasing external
solutions
because as long as you i mean
like i don't think a day planner is
gonna fix this it may help right there
may be like things there's just
certainly value to those kinds of things
don't get me wrong but i think that if
you're you know if you're like a living
zombie
and you're not motivated like that's
what you need to fix like why are you
burnt out what where did your zest for
life go
right maybe you need to mourn a little
bit that like it's boring maybe you need
to change your major there are all kinds
of things that you can do to affect your
motivation
um i don't know if this has been
uploaded to youtube but you know a
couple weeks ago we did a goal setting
and motivation seminar and like remember
that intent is one third of the equation
right so working on that intent can be
really helpful
you